I CONCEPT:
 The piece of land bound by Maphongwana Avenue (East), Eagle Street (North), Rose Street (South) and Mbekweni Street (West) is considered as a district that needs to be sustainable in terms of energy efficiency and liveability.  Hence the concept for the lay out is based on:
a) Encouraging interaction between the individual units of the district, while helping them retain their individuality, privacy and control.
b) Encouraging the interaction of this district with other surrounding districts by while maintaining control over accessibility, maintaining the existing nature of the surrounding streets (edges) and utilizing the nature of the available blocks.

II EXECUTION:
This is carried out by categorizing the units into two:
a) Mixed Use 
b) Residential.
A feature common to both mixed use and residential units is that they are oriented in such a way that the units have their longer sides facing North-South to ensure glare-free natural lighting.
These units are connected externally by the streets and internally by:
c) A court yard (that can be used as a community space) and pathways.

a)	MIXED USE UNITS:
 Mixed use is introduced to make use of the large sized units in helping facilitate the economic aiding of this district and in providing amenities to the districts around it.
  From the Google Image reference, it is understood that Maphongwana Avenue and Eagle Street (East and North) are relatively busier than Rose Street and Mbekweni Street by virtue of their size and type of buildings lining them. Based on this, bigger units, that have the potential to serve as mixed use buildings are placed along the busier edges (Maphongwana Avenue and Eagle Street). These units can be either single or double storied. 
 The single story unity can ideally have the commercial parts on the sides facing the streets and the residential parts on sides facing the interior of the district. This way it becomes easier to maintain the privacy that residents will require and in maintaining the accessibility and visual connectivity from the streets that the commercial parts of the units need. 
 The double story units can have the commercial parts on the ground floor and residential part on the first floor, so that, the commercial part can be easily accessed by visitors, while the residents have their privacy.
On the street front, these mixed use units have a set back by about 10m to facilitate vehicular parking and pedestrian path that will be useful to the visitors. On the courtyard front (back side), these mixed use units can have access through a pathway connecting them internally. By means of this internal path way, the residents of the district can simply walk across the courtyard to access these facilities.
A minimum spacing (around 3m) is maintained between these units. This building density is maintained to ensure ventilation and natural lighting to the units, while also maintaining control over possible access to the open-space (court yard) at the centre of the district by visitors, trespassers or intruders.
b)	RESIDENTIAL UNITS
From the Google Image reference, it is understood that Rose Street and Mbekweni Street (South and West) consist mostly of residential units lining them. Hence in this district, the smaller units that can serve the housing purpose are placed along these streets, so that the interaction between residents and the residential quality of the streets are maintained. 
These units are grouped in twos and are arranged in two rows parallel to the streets.
 Within the groups the units are separated from each other by 3 meters to avoid congestion and ensure ventilation and natural lighting to the units. They are separated from neighbouring groups by a distance of about 7m. Of these 7 meters, 3.5 meters belong to each of the units abutting this open space to carry out activities like gardening, private parking, etc,. 
The building density is such that the residents can maintain the individuality of their units without intruding their neighbour’s space and to ensure natural lighting and ventilation to the units.

c)	COURTYARD AND PATHWAYS
The two rows of residential units parallel to Rose Street and Mbekweni Street, internally have a broad path way between them. This is connected to the streets by perpendicular pathways radiating from two points on Rose street and One point on Mbekweni Street.
The pathways running on the back side of the mixed use structures, are connected to the eagle street at two points that perforate the densely packed mixed use structures.
These pathways are predominantly meant only for pedestrian traffic. But they will be wide enough to serve as a service corridor to the community and accommodate vehicles such as ambulances or fire trucks in case of an emergency.
The width and continuity of these paths would ensure clear sight lines from the points of entry from the streets.
At the centre is a courtyard that would serve as a community space, while also acting as a connection between the different types of units.
The centrality of this open piece of land would make it easier for the residents to have control over the activities happening there and it would also ensure ventilation and natural lighting to the structures around it.
Overall, the pathways and courtyard would ensure accessibility and connectivity along with the surrounding streets.

Thus by the above arrangement, the concept aims to achieve sustainability in terms of energy efficiency and liveability.

