With regards to the redevelopment of the waterfront between the shopping mall Vivo City and the residential district Cantonmen, the following has been proposed.
Firstly, there has been a clear focus to separate the business and residential districts. The business district has been Vivo City. The logic being, that the location of office blocks to major highways is better suited than having residential units close to highways.
Secondly, the water front has been left open for communal access, both on the business and residential sectors.
The following features would be incorporated into the design and both sectors.
As the sun in Singapore, is almost directly overhead throughout the year since Singapore is located only 1º north of the equator, massing and orientation must be conducted such as to minimise East and West facing façades. North and South facing façades have significantly less exposure to solar gains, especially in Singapore. The design /layout of the residential blocks, needs to be changed to reduce their East to West exposure. 
Where East to West building orientation cannot be minimised, openings on East and West façades, must adopted some type of shading into the façade design to block direct solar exposure to mitigate heat gains. Shading can take many forms including, horizontal or vertical projections, light shelves, exterior screening, greenery and/or balconies. Another good strategy will be to plan stairs, elevators, bathrooms or other ‘non-core’ spaces towards the East and West.
An understanding of how the envelope interacts with the outside environment is critical in designing energy-efficient and comfortable buildings. This is because the building envelope is the first step in controlling the internal environment.
As there are multiple buildings, a massing approach has been adopted to shade each other, particularly for East and West facing façades (i.e. self-shading). Particularly as afternoon hours are the hottest time of the day.
Design has focused on taller building with a smaller footprint, as opposed to shorter building with a larger footprint. The elevation of buildings reducing towards the waterfront, allowing for uninterrupted views. Buildings will have narrow floor plates, as the deeper the floor plate, the harder it is to bring natural daylight into spaces therefore increasing the dependence on artificial lighting.
For Office blocks, the perimeter glazing of the office will be wrapped within the columns of the building and set back approximately 600 to 1,500 mm away. The column themselves will serve both as structural purpose and shading purpose for the building.
In ‘mix use’ buildings, carparks would be relocated from basement to rooftop. As such, carpark would act as a thermal barrier for heat insulation, doing away with mechanical ventilation in a basement carpark and cost savings from excavation works.
Sustainable features must include integrated design process, co-generation plant, thermal energy storage system using sprinkler tank, photovoltaic panels, rain water harvesting (at roof level for toilet flush and irrigation), materials with high recycled content (i.e. Cogeneration system can be run from tenant waste cooking oil / biodiesel to produce electricity and hot water), carbon foot printing, light sensors save energy in areas with natural daylighting and highly efficient air-conditioning system with optimised Chiller, VSD and Low Flow Design.
As green field sites development, the amount of impervious surfaces would be minimised as this leads to less rainwater that can be absorbed on site. This would otherwise increase in storm water generation therefore increases the runoff into drains and receiving water bodies. This can harm water quality since water runoff from impervious surfaces typically contains high levels of particulates.
Additionally, areas to accommodate vehicles (parking areas, roads, loading areas, etc.) typically add impervious surfaces on site which contribute to heat island effects and storm water runoff. Locating projects close to public transport infrastructure (i.e. bus stops and MRT stations) and designing for alternate forms of transport (i.e. walking, cycling, electric vehicles and charging points) will help to mitigate these negative environmental impacts.
In Singapore, wind directions are predominantly N-NNE and S-SSE throughout the year depending on the monsoon season. Units will be designed as ‘through units’ to encourage natural ventilation and majority are oriented with prevailing wind conditions (NE / SW).
Maximising the amount of space to be naturally ventilated is another strategy towards reducing energy demand on a project since natural ventilation requires little energy use as compared to air-conditioning. Establishing and understanding of prevailing wind directions and how they work on the specific site will affect massing and orientation decisions.
As previously mentioned, buildings will be arranged according to ascending heights. Buildings will be laid out in rows with the lower heights in front and towards the direction of the prevailing wind.
To increase ventilation, the flowing void will be incorporated; decks at the ground floor and void spaces in between buildings to encourage air flow through and around buildings. Monsoon windows will also allow wind movement into the unit without allowing rain to penetrate into the unit.
The amount of greenery on site will be maximised. Provide greenery wherever possible at ground level, in planters, indoors and on roof areas (i.e. green roof systems – extensive or intensive systems). Also vertical greenery systems in sky terraces and landscape fed by collected rain water. Plants (i.e. trees and tall shrubs) will provide shade and reflect solar infrared radiation and divert wind to flow towards or away from a buildings. Thus preventing heat gains and keeping areas cool and significantly more thermally comfortable.
Extensive computer simulation studies, green lease and tenancy collaborations, will all be undertaken before finalisation of this redevelopment.
