Hi all,

My plan is aimed to be a fully sustainable development where I have taken a biomimetic  approach.
Please feel free to copy things out of my design that you like and in return please inspire me with your feedback to refine my design. :)

In general:
All parking is underground or as in the high rises, on the lower layers of the building. This way there is space to walk, cycle and play outside in all safety.

I have a mixture of office, commercial, residential and nature.
The latter serves a dual purpose: the first is to ensure there is recreational space close to home and work, the second is to ensure good storm water management as having large areas of green will allow rainwater to be absorbed in the ground and not flood the streets.

All buildings will be ‘living building challenge’ certified (living-future.org).

All buildings have rooftop farming, on all windows we have used organic photovoltaic solar array’ (OPV), so they collect the energy needed for the entire building. the buildings are interconnected with regards to the solar generated electricity to ensure over capacity at time in one building can be used in other buildings, this all via the IoT.

Grey water gets recycled and cleaned making use of a treatment plant as well as the light blue coloured water belt that runs through the development.

More specific:
The residential buildings have been placed in opposite ways to capture the wind and create a natural wind flow through the area

The high density mixed used buildings behind the residential area will produce shadow to the low commercial area in yellow.

There is a walk way at the sea front for residence, business people and visitors to the commercial areas to create a nice walk at the sea front for everyone.

There is a small park that nearly naturally connects to the larger park on the opposite side of the roads. There will be a green belt viaduct (bridge) that goes over the roads connecting the parks on the other side of the highway, making it possible to walk from one park into the other.

Closer to the mall we have built offices in high rise, with in front mixed use commercial below and residential above, with the same in front but then in low rise.
The high risers delivering shadow to the low risers and giving optimal sea views.

The offices are all rental, the income is used to pay for service cost of the developed area, think of park maintenance, water treatment, etc etc, with that reducing the levies of the residents.

The mall is nearby for shopping, but on prem we have also provided for sufficient commercial activity, aiming to create a community with local supply of goods like artisan breads etc.  Chain stores are not allowed to operate within this area. It will be solely focused on health and local produced produce and services.

In the park there are 2 cultural buildings. I have taken the liberty to interpret cultural attraction a bit differently. One of the buildings will be a school.
In this school building a healthy and sustainable culture is one of their drives.
Children will learn to think and approach life from a holistic point of view, where thinking positive, eating healthy, exercising etc are all woven together and become a way of approaching the more classical subject like history and maths etc.
The school and school grounds will be used for outside activities like tai chi, yoga and dancing in early mornings and weekends when the school is not operating, so the building is double used.
The school has a large rooftop farm which will be used to feed the children during school time as well as to teach kids about nutrition and growing foods.

The other cultural building will be a life Centre where the focus will be on food being our medicine instead chemicals. The life Centre replaces the conventional hospitals. Food will be the medicine as well as mental agility, only adding chemical medicine when the absolute urge is there to treat something instantly. Health issues are approached from a holistic vision where positive thinking, mental agility, food, lifestyle, alternative and non alternative medicine are taking into account.
The hospital will also have a roof top garden to provide for the patients that are admitted to the hospital

One of the high density mixed use building is called the Care House and  will house a new care concept. We are mixing care needing groups together here:
1.	The elderly
2.	Rescue animals
3.	Students
4.	Orphaned kids
The idea behind this is to revolutionize the way we look at social problems in the world and to build bridges between the silos that we have created in the last century.
We aim to tackle a number of issues that we see in our conventional solutions
A.	More and more elderly people feel isolated and deteriorate due to that, they feel they don’t matter anymore
B.	Students struggle to get by financially and are becoming less and less social 
C.	Rescue pets sit out their time I horrible small cages waiting to be adopted and loved again
D.	Similar for orphans, they often lack the one on one love as there are so many kids competing for love from the scares number of care takers, they are surrounded by other kids that are in the same ‘boot’ and there is little inspiration for their future.
The students will be given free accommodation in the building, for that they have to spend a number of hours per week, engaging with the elderly, taking care of the animals, and spend time with the orphans. This will bring life to the elderly, give the pets love and attention and give the kids hope for a better future for them is possible.
The elderly can give advice to the students, play, engage and love the kids and give love to the animals
The animals help get withdrawn elders out of their isolation and give the kids something to love and take care off.
The animals will have a temporary home and will not have to live in cages.


