The design is a blend of nature and utility, all organized in a symmetrical manner. There are two main entrances to the vicinity. The main one from KB Road, while a secondary one is from Sentosa Gateway. This allows the citizens to easily transit to and fro from the location. The main entrance has an extended pathway (that may also allow open parking) that leads into the City Park. The City Park opens up to the walkway along the coastline that should serve as a pleasant attraction for tourists and citizens alike. It will be the perfect location for joggers and couples to spend their evening away from the bustle of the city. The City Park also allows easy access to cultural attractions that further engage visitors. The vicinity is further embellished by water elements (fountains, duck ponds etc) that can be enjoyed by the children. The west side of the vicinity is mainly occupied by mixed use structures. The positioning of the structures is such that each building has a good view of the coast, with minimum obstructions. Commercial centres are optimally placed all over the vicinity, so that at average each structure is at maximum 2 grid units away from a commercial centre. Commercial centres are also strategically placed along the coastline, so that citizens can easily refresh themselves at anytime during their jaunt. A high-end commercial centre is placed at the west-end near the coast. This would feature premium restaurants and cafes that lets citizens enjoy meals and beverages with a serene view of the waterfront. The east zone stands out with dedicated offices lined next to the WC Highway for quick navigation. These offices increase the economic growth of the vicinity. Finally, in the East-end of the vicinity we find nestled a high-end residential buildings. These buildings enjoy an exclusive access to the waterfront that define their luxury status. In conclusion, this creative vision of the location paints a symmetrical picture that entwines nature, modern architecture, and sound economic sense to unravel a truly livable experience.
