marius grote, edX 
on the left side the high rise office buildings along Keppel way offer a decent look towards mt faber, the newly created parks and the seaside. the view from these buildings will overlook the highway bridge and will dampen the sound coming from it. small water elements and the nearness to a commercial centre as well as towards vivo city offer food, shopping, entertainment during or after office hours. the rotation of the buildings is an example of bettering the possible views from the majority of the offices. the view towards the sky and into distance should be enhanced. you wont find parallel buildings staring at each other. additionally the high rise office buidlings are closer to the highway side, lowering towards the seaside. there are a few residential buildings being connected to a big park towards the inside, as well as to smaller more private parks towards the seaside. the nearness to vivocity makes it convenient to place one additional commercial building for residents and office worker on the mid left side. all parks are connected. coming from the pedestrian bridge of vivo city you can enter the new neighborhood through a green corridor. if possible a green passageway (or even a green tunnel) should connect mt faber to the new neighborhood. easy access without barriers like the highway should be guaranteed. Two cultural buildings are being placed around two big parks in the middle of the neighborhood. this is an area for bigger festivals, open space for all people and "weekenders" strolling from mt faber towards the seaside. a commercial centre can work as a restaurant area for these people. the right side of this area is a mainly focused on residential buildings. high rise residential buildings offer lttle footprint and an immense view towards the seaside and even mt faber. also here, the buildings are opening towards best views possible. a mixture between an ocean fed water path, a huge park area and a small cultural attraction gives room for many residents and wide space at the same time. the offices in the top right corner are connected to the waterfront by a water channel opening to a small lake, fed by seawater to cool the area down and give a relaxed atmosphere for lunch breaks. the entrance to this neighborhood is designated to a large commercial centre, offering parking, easy access and nearness for residents in the middle and on the right. one additional office building with a superb view to the front and very easy access from the highway as well as being used as a sound blocker is a connecting part of office and commercial buildings line on the top of my proposal. the area tries to be a decent blend between residential, office and commercial buildings, with a diverse and very greenish touch. individuality of the buidlings, connectivity, access and convenience could make this a very attractive area.
