Description of the compulsory exercises as regards criteria(Visibility,Centrality,Connectivity,Accessibility)

I consider the crime prevention through the environmental design because the cape town, South Africa is one of the most dangerous places with high rate of crime occurrences such as burglars and heavy crimes.

Please see the bellow urls:
http://businesstech.co.za/news/general/110133/cape-town-is-now-among-the-10-most-violent-cities-in-the-world/
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Crime_in_South_Africa

All of the criteria can be integrated in terms of the crime prevention through environmental design and the sustainable urban neighbourhood.

Prof.Bill Hiller provided a report on a number of London districts for crime and urban design oriented to sustainability and security heuristically.

London is akin to New York and Los angeles in the crime rate with not good reputation.
http://www.spacesyntax.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/11/Hillier-Sahbaz_An-evidence-based-approach_010408.pdf

As such, I aim to make crime preventive physical layout knowing that social factors have effects on the issue alike.

Exercise description:

For now, I work intuitively on the criteria in theory.

Block lay out:

Blocks for 68 two-storey housing are located along the main roads and in other vehicle accessible roads and pedestrian paths, and south facing for intake of the good sunlight in heating and the predominant wind from the south in natural ventilation.

They are attached in a row reducing free sides, which expects to reduce the exposure of each of dwelling units to burglars' search paths and the dead points at night in which, less public surveillance is likely to be made than that in the day.

Those housing blocks attached should be partitioned by Fire walls.
Furthermore, every unit block has the ground floor space occupied, which gives the sense of the security and human presence.

Visibility, Connectivity, Accessibility,Integrated livelihood programme:

The block layout has the permeability and faces both main vehicular roads or pedestrian roads which are connected in through-movement and accessible in East-West and North-South in relation to the existing crossings.

Every building block can be provided with its own rear-terraces with recognisable boundaries, defined as semi-public space(semi-private space) in relation to the building block as private space and to roads and courtyard as public space.

All open spaces such as large courtyards in the south west, roads and rear-terraces are recognisable for the users and passers-by, which contributes for the public surveillance.

The site area has the preference of modal split for the pedestrians and so vehicle accessible roads such as the central transverse ones and South peripheral ones restrict the speeds and may set movable poles in the entry points next to the main roads in order to limit vehicle access in the ordinary time.
Furthermore, as all pedestrian roads, the vehicle accessible roads are used for delivery and  secure egress routes at the emergency as well as fire engine accessible routes.

Centrality, Ecological Landscape management:

At the community scale, the site area is surrounded by a few schools and community facilities.
With it in mind, the roads are planned with the nearby connections with those built elements in the site.
A block at the eastern corner of the site facing the Njongo Avenue is expected to be used as the community space with the sanitary units.
A courtyard in the south west is used for a playground and any other recreational place for the neighbourhood.
All of the rear-terraces and a courtyard are properly landscaped without impeding the visual integration and the public surveillance. 


