The proposal is comprehensive insight of the given criteria. 
VISIBILITY:
The concept of visibility is proposed in three layers
1. visibility at road edge to create more vibrant, safe and dynamic urban public areas at the road cross sections and edge.
2. visibility from individual units to other units for safe and secure living in neighborhood. 
3. visibility through the internal walkways and public areas from the individual units.
CENTRALITY:
The proposed spatial organisation of the units is being done in such a manner that at the road edge it provides wider public spaces and within the neighborhood it balance the view to locate the particular areas or units. 
Internal walkways provides the absolute centrality and organised pattern which will be suitable for laying the services and other provisions. 
CONNECTIVITY:
The connectivity of the neighborhood is three fold
1. The wider urban public spaces connects the neighborhood with the outside world and immediate vicinity by providing those interaction space which could be utilized as economic support by putting the shopping at the road side opening towards these wider public spaces. 
2. The second layer of connectivity comprises the direct visual and physical connectivity of these outer public space to the units through internal walkway. 
3. Third layer of connectivity is perceived as the rear tot lots or green play areas which could be a dowel space to connect this neighborhood to the upcoming next redevelopment on the rear of this neighborhood. 
ACCESSIBILITY:
The proposed development is made accessible by providing grid cross internal walkways starting from the wider urban public space at outer road side and providing accessibility to the unit and other activity area of the neighborhood. The outbound movement from the internal areas is again connected to main roads via internal walkways with feel of transformation from the outer public areas. 
The layout and its spatial characteristics combined with internal walkways and outer public areas will provide the station for services coordination and surveillance. 
